Hello everyone and welcome to this quick lecture of a command line crash course being able to navigate
your computer through the command line is a vital skill for any web developer or any general programmer.
Some commands are slightly different depending on if you use a Windows computer or a Mac OS or Linux
computer in this lecture we're going to briefly go over a few of the important commands you should know
and point out any OS differences that you may find yourself facing.
And you could always use the download in notes for reference so there is a folder in the download notes
called command line crash course and everything are going to be talking about is detailed and noted
for you in those notes.
And there's a separate text for Windows computers and a separate text for Mac OS and Linux users.
Mac OS or Linux users share the same set of command lines.
It's only Windows users that are a little different from those two.
Almost all Windows computer right now.
So I'll walk through the windows text file just to show you how it works and I'll make sure to know
any differences that occur.
If you're using a Mac Let's get started.
I'm going to open up my command prompt.
All right so here I am at my command prompt and noticed a free Windows computer.
Your location is usually just told to you here on the left so I can see here that I'm under a user folder.
If I wanted to know all the folders that were under this current directory I could use the d r command
for a Windows computer and that will if a hit enter show me everything that's under that current directory.
So here you can see I have a lot of documents and you also noticed that if they start a dot that means
they're basically hidden.
So if you're looking at this in your finder or your windows viewer you won't find those.
So that's the command for a Windows computer on a Mac OS or a Linux computer.
The command to view all your files in the current directory is LS And that stands for list.
So again L S is for Mac OS and Linux users.
And then Diyar is for Windows users.
Now let's talk about changing directory.
Imagine that I actually want to go to a specific file here.
Let's say I want to go to this video's file.
How do I do that.
Will these commands actually the same whether you are on any operating system like maccaroni operating
system like Windows cetera what you do is you type C which stands for change directory and then you
type in the next directory.
Underneath the directory you're currently are in that you want to go to.
So for example if I want to go to videos I just type CD videos enter and you can see that I have changed
the directory into CD videos.
If I want to go back up a directory again this is the same for both operating systems.
You do see the dot dot and that will take you back up one if you don't quite remember what directory
is you're looking for.
You can just start typing the directory and then use tab to autocomplete.
You keep hitting tab until you find the one you want.
So in this case I won't see the video so I can do that again and we go back with CD and that's how that
works.
OK now let's discuss clearing the screen.
I have a lot of stuff here right now.
This is a little different.
The penny.
You're on a Mac or Windows on a Windows computer.
It's C LS to clear the command prompt on a Mac OS or Linux.
It's clear.
So again C-Class for Windows to clear screen clear free Mac OS or Linux and you can always reference
the notes here if that's easier for you.
All right.
So we learned how to list all the folders in a current directory.
We learned how to clear the screen if you ever want to display your current directory.
You can just look here on the left.
If you're on Windows on a Mac or a Linux computer sometimes it's not so obvious what character you're
currently in.
So you can just type in PWT which stands for print working directory.
Again that's for Mac OS and Linux users in case you want to print out or display your current directory.
If I am on a Windows I can either just look to the left or also just typing CD will also print out my
current directory.
But you can see it's exactly the same as what is or it displayed for me.
OK so now that we learn how to display our current directory We are basically done with everything that
we need it's cover for the command line crash course.
There's also things such as make their victory if you want to make a new folder that's going to be something
like make directory M-K Diyar and that's the same for any operating system.
And then you just say wherever the new directory you want so something like New Folder.
But we're not going to be doing that too often throughout the course and if we ever do touch upon so
command lines that you haven't seen yet I'll be sure to let you know what they are and how we use them.
But right now the only ones you should really be aware of is how to change directory.
The most useful is against CD type in the directory name you're looking for.
For example videos you can use tab to help autocomplete this.
And if you ever want to go back should see the dot dot.
That's really the main one that I wanted to know.
Changing the directory ness the same regardless of your operating system.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.